---
title: 2016 Journal&#58; Week 04
Date: January 24th, 2016
---

Often I find myself going full force at something without noticing my meter is running a little low. It is at these times that I need to recognise slowing down and taking some recovery time is best. With certain aspects of my life, like hardware design, I understand what a marathon pace is and how not to run my energy bar down below zero. I think this week I ran my bar too low in both my personal and self-study areas. I had been making such huge strides in these areas for two to three months prior so it is no surprise that I just needed a week to slow down and take a breath.

In my hardware engineering job, it was business as usual. I solved a few board design problems, re-tooled a few documents, and planned for a few new design projects. I also had the opportunity to get to a back-burner item and designed a pallet fixture for running a board assembly through our flying probe machine. I’m happy to have finished it this week. Next week I’m shifting my goals and am going to try and make headway on a few projects that have been awaiting some “free” time. I have two or three which should help the company quite nicely and I’ll evaluate the situation of each one starting Monday.

My self-study didn’t have huge progress this week. I worked for about 4-6 hours in total looking for a new project and finding no passion for creating a problem to solve. I did, however, manage to listen to two podcasts this week and tried out a few tricks with CSS shapes and transforms learned from the books I read over the past two weeks. In addition, I finished a new level 6 kata in Codewars and I feel good about having that accomplishment on the list this week. I have to make a decision whether I go back to my video courses while I do not have a project to work through or I find another project to sink my teeth into. I’ll know where I am by Wednesday and I’ll be moving forward in one direction or the other.

On the side of personal development, I finished 61 Hours by Lee Child. This was a long book and I became quite engrossed at times. Because of this, I found that is was my escape when feeling a bit low on inspiration in my web development studies. This marks the second novel completed this month and sets me up for a good year as I’m now anxious to read more. I also had time to draw a little as well. I’ve been working on drawing knot patterns and it has been a very soothing process. Using my hands and a pencil is important as I rarely do this anymore in our digitized world. My wife and I also had a chance to celebrate our anniversary by seeing some public art installations in downtown Orlando. It’s always inspiring to see what others have created for the world to appreciate.

The week wasn’t what I had set out for it to be from the beginning but looking over the whole breadth of the week I’m quite content with the result. I would have liked to get more studying done but, on occasion, you have to allow yourself to fill the tanks back up again.