---
title: 2016 Journal&#58; Week 05
Date: January 31th, 2016
---

Heavy are the shoulders of someone who thinks they can predict the unknown. I often find my greatest disappointments in life are due to my prediction of what might happen. I find it very easy to start extrapolating 1+1=2 then 2+2=4 then 4+4=8 and so on very early when I start to accomplish tasks. When someone throws a wrench in the works, it can be frustrating to have your goals derailed. That was the story of the week, one nasty cold - that still hasn’t died, and my week went quickly from on track to way off.

My work week this week was a fairly short 3 days. I saw the fixture come it we made for flying probe. It was a good choice to have this plastic printed, as a trial, as it turned out well and was very cost effective. I received news there was a shift in priority and we would not be able to run tests required to finish the layout I’m anxious to release. Once again, maybe next week.

My web development studies took a nice leap forward this week as I turned back to Treehouse to backfill the time where I have no active project. I finished a class on jQuery plugins and have almost finished another on Creating a Dynamic Site using Node.js. Currently, the track I’m on is a JavaScript Full-stack course load but I’ve previously completed 90% of the  Web Design track and I’ve finished all of the Front End Developer track.  Soon I hope to take a course in npm and Gulp. I use these in my local development but I’ve not taken any formal classes on the subjects.

Personally, it has been a week of eating my own words. I’m human, I’ve been sick, but over the past five years anytime I was sick I was not allowing myself to “checkout.” If my wife and I got sick we still had kids and still had to do our duties. I was proud of this accomplishment. This fact I also shared publicly and was judgmental of parents who allowed themselves to disappear from  the world and put the burden on their partner to muscle through. Wednesday evening I was hit with an upper respiratory infection that laid me out flat. I had no energy, was in severe joint and muscle pain, then the cough took over. My days were miserable, my nights unsleepable, I was fully checked out. I have a huge amount of guilt about the strain this put on my wife while she slowly got sick as well. Folks, my wife is a superhero. I’m trying to stay positive and hope to get better soon. I was able to finish more than half of Worth Dying For by Lee Child during the down time. And in pre-cold news, I got another run in so that was nice.

Again hoping to bite off more than I could chew only to be gracefully put back in my place by mother nature, I realized my goals might need to be broader. Focus on the specific tasks that take you towards the larger goal. If you can only get 1 task done in one area, 3 tasks of another, and 0 in a third, don't focus on the 0. Focus on the 4 tasks closer you are to achieving your overall goals. Zooming out a bit hopefully will help with my motivation and help remove disappointment when things get in the way.