---
title: 2016 Journal&#58; Week 03
Date: January 17th, 2016
---

This week was one of reflection. Sometimes you repeat old mistakes and are reminded what was previously learned. Other times it helps to look back on what was learned both in tough times where you had to dig yourself out of a hole and also when others helped you find a way through. This was the common theme of the week.

Work seemed like a typical week, some new design work along with the processing of changes to existing designs. But two interesting things happened. The first was that a co-worker left the company to take a new opportunity. Some people you work with act with great professionalism regardless of the strain of any given situation. Some people help you by being great collaborators and better you and the company just being a part of the team. This person personified both of these qualities. I feel the company has lost a great asset and I'll miss working with him. This loss did, however, give me the motivation to write a blog post about how I was in an awkward position after a large layoff and how creating a new workflow process helped. I still have not finished the design layout that was my goal this week. This will have to wait until more testing can be done. Maybe this week I can push in the right direction and get things moving again.

In my web development self-study, I was able to accomplish my goal of reading more, I started and finished CSS3 for Web Designers by Dan Cederholm. This book was very informative and combining this book and what I read last week in the SMACSS book I’m feeling excited to get into another project where I can write CSS and apply all of this new knowledge. This is my goal this week, find and start a project to put some of this knowledge into practice before I lose the lessons I’ve learned.

In the realm of personal development, I had a tough lesson to learn, again. I could not run at all. This was the hard lesson remembered. Run too far, too fast, too hard, and your body breaks. Over the past month my mind was telling me I felt great and I pushed too hard. I was sidelined with what I believe to be tendonitis in my hip flexor muscles. It was excruciating to walk for a week. I’m feeling better now and am excited to start again and go slow regardless of how fast I might want to progress. Maybe one good run this week and two or three strengthening workouts to reinforce some weaker muscle groups. I also got in about two or three hours of drawing this week and I’m very happy to have had the time for that. In addition, I finished Brave New World and started 61 Hours by Lee Child.

Reflecting upon a coworker moving on and how he has affected my life, writing a blog post to summarize an accomplishment, and noticing how bad habits even two years later are still bad habits have really had me looking in the rearview this week. Yet also looking back I’m three weeks into my weekly journal and very excited to see what this will bring in the future.