---
title: 2016 Journal&#58; Week 02
Date: January 10th, 2016
---

I woke up blearily, got up, wandered blearily around the room, had my coffee and began the epic journey of getting back to work after two weeks of vacation. That's always fun. This week I set out with goals written down and was optimistic about the promises I could fulfill. And, like most first weeks back, it was a bit of a scatterer-brained mess which slowly worked itself out throughout the course of the week. I logged my accomplishments each day and it helped keep me motivated during the week.

As far as printed circuit board and mechanical design work this week, it could be summed up mostly by one task, component engineering. The largest part of my week was finding alternatives for component obsolescence issues. The other notable things this week; reading about tin fretting corrosion, thermal fusing of circuit board traces, and degrading components though too stringent MSL process control. Also, I was a part of a brainstorming session for a new scripted idea to speed up a manual purchasing process. I did not get a chance to work on the board design I hoped to finish. I’m setting this as a goal to be achieved next week and I will work to have this board ready to be ordered.

In my web development studying this week, I’m very happy with my progress. I was able to finish the SMACSS book early in the week. I’ll be referencing its methods for my next project. I also had the opportunity to listen to four different podcasts on web development in order to stay up on the latest topics. I found a very cool tutorial on regular expressions called RegExOne which I was able to work through. I now feel like I have a much greater understanding for what I can do with regular expressions. Near the end of the week I also went shopping at the A Book Apart shop and purchased four new books. The first of which, HTML5 for Web Designers by Jeremy Keith, I’ve finished this week as well. Next week I hope to finish one or two more books and find a project to start in order to practice what I’ve have learned these past two weeks.

On the personal side, as I alluded previously, my brain was very foggy early in the week and sorting this out took some effort. I was, however, able to get two runs in, the first was a 30min run for a distance of 3 miles, and the second was a 32 min run for about 3.3 miles. After the second run, I was ready to push for a longer running pace. Even though my heart and lungs are ready for more, some of the muscles I’ve not used in a good year are feeling quite strained and I skipped one run for some extra recovery time. I was able to achieve two other things as well. First, I started reading Brave New World by Aldous Huxley. Second, I found some time to draw. I never seem to find time for this and while I don’t find I have much skill in doing so, it is always an activity I enjoy. My goals for the upcoming week are to get at least two runs in and I’d like to finish Brave New World.

I’m happy to have my second journal entry written and the new work year kicked off. Hopefully, as I go forth each one will get easier and easier. Here’s to the week ahead.