---
title: 2016 Journal&#58; Week 07
Date: February 14th, 2016
---

Happy Valentine’s Day for those who celebrate the day. I’m very lucky that after 18 years of being with the same woman, I feel as in love as the day I met her, and some days slightly more. I know I’m blessed to have this and I’m grateful for every day we have had up to this point. 

My week this week was back to a normal rhythm. I have progressed in my PCB design work, in my web development self-studies, and with personal achievements. It feels great to be back on the path of progress in all areas this week.

I received quite a few change requests and product improvement work to implement this week. Yet in the midst of that work I was able to complete a document I’ve been working on for 3 weeks. The document is titled “PCB Fabrication Notes, General Reference.” This document outlines all the standard practices for PCB fabrication that Avidyne uses and is setup to be used as a reference document to centralize 20-30 common notes that can now be managed in a single document rather than repeated across all fabrication documents. The standardization of these notes come from collating over 60 drawings, reviewing current technologies in the industry, and validating references to industry standards. I’m very proud of this accomplishment and hope it will be a big step forward for the company’s board design process.

For my self-study of web development, I finished Express Basics at Treehouse, watched a few workshop videos on CSS techniques, and read a few articles at Smashing Magazine and CSS-Tricks. I’m getting quite a bit of training in JavaScript and specifically backend JavaScript coding lately. It is very helpful to understand routes, requests, responses, and how these can be manipulated and handled to create dynamic web servers using Node.js. In my current track at Treehouse, I have 3 more courses, one on Angular, one on MongoDB, and one on Glup. After I finish these I should have enough knowledge to create a full web application using a MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular, Node.js) stack, and this I find quite exciting.

I started in on my 3rd Jack Reacher novel of late, book 16, The Affair by Lee Child. So far I’ve finished half of the book. I was going to try and go back to the Hitchhiker's series and try again to get through So Long and Thanks for All the Fish, but it wasn’t available when I went to the library. On a health note, I finally got to some dental work done that I’ve been needing to get to since just before I got sick. Now that my cough has died back down I am also looking forward to getting back to running next week.

It is always nice to feel a sense of balance return to your life, like catching your breath after a long run. All in all, my life feels busy, but the sense of accomplishment for the week is enough to power myself into the coming week without feeling to overworked. Week 7 complete and 45 more full of wonder still to come in 2016.