---
title: 2016 Journal&#58; Week 08
Date: February 21st, 2016
---

I feel like I’m hitting my stride. This week I’ve felt the momentum from the previous weeks pushing me onto a good pace. I was able to start another large project at work, my web development study was steady, and personally my week has been equally satisfying. All of that said my week has been normal as well, not just a lucky roll of the dice, the normal challenges of life have come up as well and I still find myself smiling about my week here at the end.

Along with the standard issues that have been brought to my attention at work this week I’ve also been able to start a new project. Over the past two and a half years I’ve developed a process which myself and a small team have cultivated and adapted into a solid PCB design workflow. Like anything else, finding the time to document your working process is difficult. With the circuit board design workload being low currently, I have taken the time to start framing out a process document. I’m about 40% of the way through and hope to push further on this in the coming week.

Also for work, I was able to combine my web development education with my issue tracking and list taking software. I wrote a Node.js command line application that queries JSON data from an exported Trello board and list statistics about cards and lists from the board. This will help in monitoring how effective I’m being with both my issue tracking and problem resolutions.

In my web development studies, I finished another Treehouse course this one on the subject of GitHub. I already use GitHub to store my projects and git to keep them under version control but this course helped teach me features I wasn’t taking advantage of. I also watched a few workshop videos on JavaScript techniques, including one on using npm as a task runner similar to Gulp or Grunt.

Also in web development, with my journal entries going well I’ve been posting to my blog a least once a week. I started my portfolio will all my posts going to my portfolio's home page. This was okay until there were 9 or 10 posts. When I noticed there was no navigation from any other page to my blog, I wanted to add a “Blog” entry to the navigation menu. I was able to modify my setup quite easily with how my code base was broken down into modules. I don’t think this will be my final solution, but for now, I’m pleased with how easy it was to add this to my code and adapt a new nav button to my site.

On the personal side, I finished The Affair by Lee Child. Be careful, this one might make you blush at points, but it was another great Jack Reacher book. I was able to fit a run in, slow and steady, but progress is progress. I was able to spend a large amount of time with my daughter this weekend, due to my son being sick and needing to stay home and rest with his Mama.

Having all of these iterative achievements I feel very successful this week. Yet I still feel the need to tackle a bigger project in my web development or in my personal life to really feel a good achievement milestone. This is something I’ll continue to think about as I move forward next week.
