---
title: 2016 Journal&#58; Week 09
Date: February 28th, 2016
---

As I look back on this week I’ve noticed a pattern. I set out to accomplish a large quantity of tasks and in the end, I realize that life is complicated and it loves throwing wrenches into your works. Learning how to compensate for that fact is important. I think my expectations are becoming a bit more reasonable in that I realize making significant accomplishments in every area of my life each week, while nice when it happens, isn’t a requirement.

This week, I’ve made more progress on documenting the PCB design process at Avidyne. Yet the more I peel away at the process itself the more I realize should be included in the documentation. I was also able to start on two new board designs. These are simple test fixture boards, so quite simple, but after a few weeks of no design work, it feels nice to get back to the PCB designer role.

In my studies this week, I read Sass for Web Designers by Dan Cederholm. This was more of a review about Sass but was a nice refresher of features I don’t often use. In the same light, I'm taking a class on Gulp, the JavaScript task runner. I use this often in current projects but haven't yet taken a class on it. I hoping this course will teach me some new tricks.

I also started a new development project, a version of my Trello data reporter as a web application. The Trello data reporter I wrote last week was a Node.js console-based report. I’ve decided to tackle interfacing with the Trello API and parsing data pulled from any user's Trello board to show statistics on their cards. This has been challenging but after only a few hours of work, I now have a solid interface with the API. I’m hoping to finish the design of the page and make the user interface more intuitive and aesthetically pleasing in the coming week.

I feel like this week wasn’t what last week was as far as bulk achievement, but coming out of it I can see my studies really paying off. I’ve been studying web development for over a year, and now taking on a tough project, something previously unknown and scary, I can manage my way through, and that feels like a big win.
