---
title: 2016 Journal&#58; Week 06
Date: February 7th, 2016
---

Recovery and pulling myself back on track were the focus of the week. My family has had a tough time with a 7-10 day cold thrown in the middle of the past two weeks. Usual story, both kids, and my wife also shared in the misery. After 9 days I did get a full-ish night of sleep, so I’m feeling better. Putting aside the large bit of down time, getting back to things can often seem like a very heavy load to pick back up. I’m trying not to lift too much too soon.

My work week this week, again, was a fairly short 3 days. The notable item that occurred this week was a day-long seminar on PCB fabrication and design put on by our latest board fabricator, NCAB Group. I’ve seen many of these seminars in my career, and while the technology hasn’t changed much in 30 years, it was a good refresher. I found myself really reflecting on how we can be more bulletproof in our design process when it comes to specification and feature implementation. It was a new way of looking at old material and was very productive for me to spend the day going back over this information. I’m working on creating updated company standards for fabrication and assembly as well as retooling our fabrication drawing process. With the seminars and the process improvement that I’ve started, I’m very happy with my progress in PCB design this week.

In web development studies, I continued with my Treehouse learning. I finished a class on Creating a Dynamic Site using Node.js. and a course on npm, the package manager. I’ve started a course on Express, the Node.js web framework, and hope it to be one of at least two classes I can complete this upcoming week. In addition to the classes I took, I was also able to listen to two new ShopTalk Show episodes, which always answers some of my questions pertaining to web development.

It was rough days and sleepless nights for 7 days of a cold with a cough. I have just had my first few nights of more than 3 consecutive hours of sleep and finally sleeping has helped usher me back to the land of the living. I finished Worth Dying For by Lee Child during my sleepless nights so there was a silver lining. My family also had a nice visit with out of town siblings where we had the pleasure of being able to spend our niece's birthday with her.

As I finish nursing myself back to health I look ambitiously to the future. Working to enhance processes at work should help everyone involved and my online self-study has been going very well over the past two weeks with Treehouse. I also seem to have come into a good rhythm with my journal entries and these are no longer very painful. They just take a set amount of time and a few revisions to get pushed out on Sunday evenings. I’m looking forward to the upcoming week.