---
title: Engineering a PCB Design Workflow
Date: January 16th, 2016
---

Starting at a new company can be a daunting task even for the most seasoned of designers. The challenges of learning completely new systems and processes can cause loads of stress and add extra challenges to already aggressive project schedules. Last time I found myself in this position there were two PCB designers supporting the five to six electrical engineers. I was still new, and I was following the lead of a fellow designer. Together we made sure our work was cohesive and followed the same set of rules. Being new to this company, I tried not to rock the boat too much, and the two of us managed to keep things on track and in order.

Fast forward to my eleventh month at this job and the hardware engineering department of 10 people and two managers became 4 employees and two managers less due to a large layoff. This is where I found myself a little over two years ago, becoming the sole PCB designer for the company supporting all legacy designs and responsible for all future development. Supporting the volume of designs that I was tasked with, I could no long afford to use the unorganized approach that worked previously. I would have to develop a process that was efficient and effective for the environment I found myself in.

I looked at the current process for design. It was a terrible mess. The process went something like the following. There would be some sort of notification that a board was to be revised or a problem with a layout was to be solved. I say ‘some sort’ because even the notification of this was often ambiguous. Then came the endless march of input I would receive from every department (manufacturing engineering, test engineering, assembly, quality, software engineering, and/or hardware engineering). This input was received throughout the design process and oftentimes conflicting with other inputs. Once we either needed the board to be released or the rounds of inputs had reached some critical mass we would then hold a review of the design to go over how everything was accomplished. If we were lucky, the board would be ready to be ordered a week after this final meeting. I’d say on average most board spins took three to four weeks to complete . This was not going to work moving forward.

The first goal I wanted to achieve was to gather all of the issues and changes prior to starting the design. The hope was to limit the amount of churn throughout the process of implementing changes to the board design. Now, I’ve been in engineering a long time, and to not be able to roll with changes along the way means you are in the wrong field. Knowing this, I still held that this could be achieved. So now I start each project with a call for issues or suggestions. A few months after implementing this, I would get approximately 90% of the inputs to the design prior to starting. Yet this call for input had an issue, how did everyone know what was submitted?

My second goal was to get everyone on the same page and agreeing to the same issues that would be addressed in the new design or revision of the board. I did this by way of a preliminary design review. In this review, we perform a schematic review for all circuit changes to the board, as well as go over the list of proposed changes that have been submitted point-for-point. This has been the most successful revision of the process I’ve instituted. Bringing everyone in the same room and resolving all conflicts by agreeing to all changes has solved problems before they even become an issue. Now, difficult people will be difficult, but I find most of the time, a group can come to a majority vote, if not a complete consensus, by including everyone involved. This additional meeting did come at the cost of a day or two delay to the schedule, but the time it saved was, at least, a week of disagreements and back-and-forth conversation about what to do with each design.

The third and final goal I wanted to achieve was to give full transparency to the work that had been done and any changes that were added along the way. This goal was fulfilled via the same system we had before a final design review. It has been helpful to keep records of all design changes during the implementation stage of this process. This created a nice list to go through  in the final review. No surprises, no one left out, and, best of all, (for the most part) no complaints about the designs after they were released.

The results of creating the process have been amazing. Everyone is allowed to submit their issues. I find if you allow everyone a voice, it gives a sense of this being a team effort. Adding to the team effort, everyone decides what is being allowed into the design changelist at the preliminary design review. Having this approved list is good for issue-tracking and has created a handy checklist for me as the designer throughout the layout process. And finally, everyone is brought back together to see the finished result and make any last comments.

The process adds 2-3 days off the bat. So for small design changes it can turn a two-day design into a week, but for larger designs I have seen returns of days to weeks. We still face the same challenges as any hardware engineering department but as I continue to move forward, I hope to work and design processes like this one and helpfully weed out inefficiency and make the company more successful day-to-day.